Add 2025 March releases post (#239)
conda/conda-dot-org: blog/2025-03-20-march-releases.mdx

---
title: March 2025 Releases
slug: 2025-03-20-march-releases
authors: [kenodegard]
tags: [announcement, conda, conda-build]
description: |
  conda 25.3.0, conda-build 25.3.0, and conda-libmamba-solver 25.3.0 have been released! 🎉
image: img/blog/2025-03-20-march-releases/banner.png
---

The March 2025 releases included updates to conda, conda-build, and conda-libmamba-solver! 🎉 All of these have been released to both `main` and `conda-forge` channels.

<!-- truncate -->

## Changes in conda [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.0)

To update `conda` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda=25.3.0
```

**Notable Changes:**
- Add support for Python 3.13.

> - Refactor CMD's activation process to use a static shell script instead of a dynamic temporary script. This resolves using `conda activate` with script execution restrictions when Windows AppLocker is enabled.

Reviewer: I'm not totally clear on this second sentence. This resolves the need to use `conda activate` with script execution restrictions or does it resolve an issue with using `conda activate`?

Author: this resolves an issue where `conda activate` will fail in CMD when AppLocker's script execution restrictions are enabled

Reviewer: Ah okay, then my suggestion is to state that more clearly:

```suggestion
- Refactor CMD's activation process to use a static shell script instead of a dynamic temporary script. This resolves an issue where using `conda activate` would fail when Windows AppLocker script execution restrictions were enabled.
```

- `conda 25.3.0` is a deprecation release (see [CEP-9](https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-0009.md) for details) so watch out for deprecated features (previously marked as pending deprecation), many of these deprecated features will be removed in `conda 25.9.0`.

Checkout the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.0)

> ## Changes in conda-build [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.0)

Author: yes

description: |
  conda 25.3.1, conda-build 25.3.2, conda-libmamba-solver 25.3.0, and conda-index 0.6.0 have been released! 🎉
image: img/blog/2025-03-20-march-releases/banner.png
---

The March 2025 releases included updates to conda, conda-build, conda-libmamba-solver, and conda-index! 🎉 All of these have been released to both `main` and `conda-forge` channels.

<!-- truncate -->

## Changes in conda [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.0)/[25.3.1](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.1)

To update `conda` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda=25.3.1
```

**Notable Changes:**
- Add support for Python 3.13.
- Refactor CMD's activation process to use a static shell script instead of a dynamic temporary script. This resolves an issue where using `conda activate` would fail when Windows AppLocker script execution restrictions were enabled.
- `conda 25.3.0` is a deprecation release (see [CEP-9](https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-0009.md) for details) so watch out for deprecated features (previously marked as pending deprecation), many of these deprecated features will be removed in `conda 25.9.0`.

> Checkout the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda/releases/tag/25.3.0)
```

## Changes in conda-build [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.0)/[25.3.1](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.1)/[25.3.2](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.2)

To update `conda-build` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda-build=25.3.2
```

**Notable Changes:**
- Add v0 recipe option `build.python_version_independent` to support building ABI3 for one CPython version and using the package in any later version.
- Add `cdt_arch` and `cdt_name` as used vars when cdt jinja function is used.

> Checkout the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-build/releases/tag/25.3.0)
```
I must have missed these before.

## Changes in conda-libmamba-solver [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)

To update `conda-libmamba-solver` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda-libmamba-solver=25.3.0
```

> Checkout the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)
```

## Changes in conda-libmamba-solver [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)

To update `conda-libmamba-solver` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda-libmamba-solver=25.3.0
```

Check out the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)

## Changes in conda-index [0.6.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-index/releases/tag/0.6.0)

To update `conda-index` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda-index=0.6.0
```

**Notable Changes:**
- Add support for sharded repodata in accordance with [CEP-16](https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-0016.md).

Check out the full changelog for more: [0.6.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-index/releases/tag/0.6.0)

## Changes in constructor [3.11.2](https://github.com/conda/constructor/releases/tag/3.11.2)/[3.11.3](https://github.com/conda/constructor/releases/tag/3.11.3)

To update `constructor` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base constructor=3.11.3
```

> 
> **Notable Changes:**
> - Add support for sharded repodata in accordance with [CEP-16](https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-0016.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is not part of constructor I think?

Checkout the full changelog for more: [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-libmamba-solver/releases/tag/25.3.0)

## Changes in conda-index [25.3.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-index/releases/tag/0.6.0)

To update `conda-index` to the latest version, run:

```bash
conda install -n base conda-index=0.6.0
```

**Notable Changes:**
- Add support for sharded repodata in accordance with [CEP-16](https://github.com/conda/ceps/blob/main/cep-0016.md).

> Checkout the full changelog for more: [0.6.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-index/releases/tag/0.6.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the full changelog for more: [0.6.0](https://github.com/conda/conda-index/releases/tag/0.6.0)
```

Reviewer: In these cases, nouns are one word, verbs are two! Same with login/log in, etc.
